Hi, my name is Mike and I'm a senior
consulting engineer at Apple supporting
enterprise and education.
I'm joined by my colleague Danielle from
Enterprise Product Marketing,
and we're really excited to take
you through a technical deep
dive of deploying macOS Big Sur.
macOS Big Sur is our latest
operating system released last
fall for our Mac computers,
and it brings so many new features
that we decided to increment
the macOS version to version 11.
It features an all-new design,
updates to apps you love
like messages and maps,
includes enhanced translation features
and privacy protections in Safari,
and so much more.
Today, we'll focus primarily on platform
changes that affect IT organizations.
In this session, I'll provide an overview
of those platform changes.
Danielle will provide a deeper
focus on our moving of our
Mac computers to custom Apple Silicon,
the considerations for
deployment with that transition.
And then we'll both wrap up
with specific workflow guidance,
including recommendations for
one-to-one and shared deployments.
Additional resources for this session
can be found alongside the recording
and will be covered briefly at the end.
So let's get started
with platform changes.
Auto-advance is a feature we introduced
a few years ago for Apple TV that
makes it super easy to set them
up at scale by allowing them to
be automatically configured simply
by connecting power and ethernet.
It's been very successful and we
brought it to the Mac in macOS Big Sur.
Here's a quick demonstration of it in
action where you can see just how quickly
we reached the macOS login window.
Once a device enrollment profile
is assigned to the device using
MDM and Apple School Manager or
Apple Business Manager,
simply plug in power, connect ethernet,
and then power it on.
You can pre-select language
and region using MDM,
and all of the setup screens
are automatically advanced.
Your network must support DHCP and must
not require a client proxy configuration
for this to work out of the box.
Once the process starts,
after about 30 seconds
of no user interaction,
the Mac will quickly
reach the login window.
Because this workflow is ideal for shared
deployments or unattended configurations,
it's assumed that user accounts,
besides the IT administrator account
that's often created using MDM,
will either come from a directory
service or be provisioned using
some additional helper tool.
If you choose to use Auto Advance in
a one-to-one deployment,
you'll need to consider how the
account for the initial user who
uses the Mac will be created.
Auto Advance is the fastest
way to set up a Mac,
and combined with StartOS Install,
which I'll cover later,
is a powerful combination that
allows for a completely automated,
and even remote,
upgrade and reinstall of macOS.
Over the years,
we've had a variety of different
types of MDM enrollment on macOS,
including device enrollment,
user-approved MDM enrollment,
and automated device enrollments,
which happened as a result of
enrolling using Apple School Manager or
Apple Business Manager.
Each type of enrollment allowed
for managing or restricting
more features respectively,
with automated device enrollment allowing
for the strongest levels of device
management as it enabled supervision.
In macOS Big Sur, user-approved MDM is
equivalent to supervision,
greatly simplifying the considerations
for device enrollment on macOS.
If a user manually enrolls their
Mac using a downloaded enrollment profile
and installs it using system preferences,
last year in macOS Catalina,
that resulted in user-approved MDM.
In macOS Big Sur,
it's simply called a device enrollment
and results in supervision to allow
for full management of the device.
will also automatically convert all
existing user-approved MDM enrollments
to supervised upon upgrade to Big Sur.
User-approved MDM is a
consideration of the past,
and we hope this will greatly
help your deployment workflows.
There is a small caveat to supervision
for Mac computers with Apple Silicon,
but Danielle will discuss that later.
macOS Big Sur brings managed
apps to the Mac for both device
enrollments and user enrollments.
The primary benefit is that MDM can
now remove an app it has installed,
either by choice or
automatically upon unenrollment.
iOS-style managed app configuration
and feedback are supported as well.
And while custom configuration profiles
with custom preferences have been
supported on macOS for a long time,
managed app configuration allows
for use with user enrollment,
and in most cases allows for a
more tightly coupled configuration
within common MDM platforms.
For device enrollments, MDM can convert a
non-managed app to managed,
but converting from unmanaged to managed
is not supported for user enrollments.
There are some requirements
for managed apps on macOS.
The package installing the application
must only install a single .appbundle
file into the applications directory,
and the application can be
removed if it hasn't been moved
from the applications directory.
Because apps installed from apps and
books from Apple School Manager or
Apple Business Manager install into
the applications directory by default,
this makes them perfect
candidates to be managed apps.
Note that data separation and managed
open-end in the context of managed apps
are currently unique to iOS and iPadOS.
Custom apps let you meet the
unique needs of your organization,
and now you can distribute
custom Mac apps.
Custom apps can provide
a tailored look and feel,
security features for sensitive data,
special functionality for unique
business or school workflows,
and much more.
They're then made available
privately to your organization
through Apple Business Manager or
Apple School Manager so that you
can then distribute them to your
customers or users internally.
With macOS Big Sur,
a Mac Pro 2019 or later
supports lights-out management.
This means a Mac Pro can be started up,
shut down,
and rebooted remotely if needed,
meaning no more physical trips to
the data center for remedial tasks.
An MDM-enrolled Mac gets designated
as a lights-out management controller,
and when MDM wants to perform
a lights-out management
action on a capable device,
MDM sends a command to the controller,
and then the controller, in turn,
sends the command to the
Mac Pro using a secured and
proprietary protocol over IPv6 that
leverages industry-standard PKI.
Lights-out management requires Mac Pro to
be able to run Macs on a computer,
and the same is true for macOS Big Sur.
The same is true for macOS Big Sur,
and your Mac Pro computers must
have a network connection on the
same subnet as your controller
Mac over IPv6 using Ethernet.
You also need to ensure that you
have the lights-out management
payload and a payload configuring
a certificate with an RSA key,
such as SCEP, deployed to your controller
and Mac Pro computers
that you wish to manage.
Network interface bonding is supported
on Mac Pro computers you wish to manage.
Here's a quick illustration.
As an MDM admin,
you send a lights out management
command from your MDM server and the
controller Mac receives the command
and then distributes it to each of the
Mac Pro computers that you've targeted.
macOS Catalina introduced
a read-only system volume.
macOS Big Sur takes it a step further
by introducing a cryptographically
signed system volume to protect
against malicious tampering.
As a part of this, macOS actually boots
from an APFS snapshot.
The signed system volume also allows
for easier updating of the system
as the update process is now much
more similar to iOS and iPadOS.
Because the system volume is
cryptographically validated,
FileVault works a bit differently in that
it no longer encrypts the system volume.
However, FileVault can still be used to
encrypt user data on the data volume.
The general impact of this change
for IT should be minimal to none,
but it's an important platform change
that we wanted you to be aware of.
While interacting with secure token
at scale was made significantly
better in macOS Catalina with the
introduction of the Bootstrap token,
we've expanded how it can be used in
macOS Big Sur so that it can be even
more useful to your organization.
A Bootstrap token enables macOS
to grant secure token to accounts
without needing to authenticate
separately with an already secure
token-enabled admin password.
In macOS Big Sur,
a Bootstrap token will grant
secure token to any user on
a supervised Mac by default,
including local user accounts.
Previously,
the automatic granting of secure token
was restricted to just mobile accounts
and the MDM-created IT admin account.
Also, an important change to call out is
one that was made in macOS Catalina
10.15.4 for that release in newer.
If your MDM supports the Bootstrap
token feature and a Bootstrap
token has not yet been generated
by macOS and stored with MDM,
macOS will try to generate one and
store it any time any currently secure
token-enabled user logs into the Mac.
In most cases,
this means that a unique per-Mac
Bootstrap token should be available
for use by Mac computers in your
organization without additional
scripting being required.
The Bootstrap token also enables
additional management features on
Mac computers with Apple Silicon,
and Danielle will cover those later.
System extensions introduced in macOS
Catalina are APIs to allow developers
of apps for endpoint security,
networking, file providers,
and printers and scanners to build apps
that are outside of the system kernel.
Vendors who use kernel extensions
or KEXT should instead use these
new system extensions to provide
existing and new functionality
while keeping the system secure.
As IT administrators,
we know you use device drivers,
file providers, networking,
and security apps that may
still require kernel extensions.
We encourage you to talk with your
vendors about getting them to move
to newer versions that are built on
system extensions as soon as possible.
In some cases,
that may mean you need to switch vendors.
These newer versions greatly
reduce the possibility of
kernel panics on Mac computers
because they run in user space,
reduce the attack surface,
and are manageable using MDM,
just like how kernel extensions have been
able to be handled for a number of years.
Regarding their older
equivalents kernel extensions,
new in macOS Big Sur is that when
some kernel extensions that should be
updated to use system extensions or
driver kit are attempted to be loaded,
an alert will warn users that the
kecks need to be updated and they
will not load on macOS Big Sur.
There is an exception, however,
for kecks that have been allowed by MDM.
This is designed to help support the move
to system extensions while also balancing
the needs of large organizations.
By default in macOS Big Sur,
installing a kernel extension and
allowing it to load requires a
user-initiated action by an administrator
to rebuild the kernel cache.
We know many organizations don't allow
their users to be administrators,
so macOS Big Sur provides two
options for organizations to enable
kecks to load without requiring
administrative credentials.
The first option leverages MDM to restart
the device and rebuild the kernel cache,
instead of relying on a user
to be involved in the process.
There are three options on the restart
device MDM command to accommodate this,
one of which is new in macOS 11.3.
The first option, Rebuild Kernel Cache,
tells the Mac to rebuild
its cache and reboot.
The optional accompanying Cache
Path option allows for MDM to ask
specific Caches to be loaded that
haven't been discovered by the system yet
through an app's attempt to load them.
This allows MDM to install an app and
load the Caches without the user having
to launch the app first before the
reboot that rebuilds the Kernel Cache.
New in macOS 11.3,
the notify user option will display a
notification to the user and includes a
restart now option in the notification.
When clicked, this performs a graceful
restart of macOS,
like going to the Apple menu
and choosing restart.
It's worth noting that notify
user can be used with the restart
device MDM command outside of
the context of kernel extensions,
and therefore without the
KEXT related option shown here,
but it's especially helpful
when they're combined.
The second option is to include the new
key "Allow non-admin user approvals"
set to true in the System Policy Kernel
Extensions payload from MDM.
When using this key,
a standard user can manually complete
the installation of Kecks by rebooting
the Mac from within System Preferences,
Security and Privacy,
without having to provide
administrator credentials.
To increase data security and prevent
unintended profile installation,
when a profile is downloaded
before it can be installed,
an alert is shown to the user indicating
that they need to finish the profile
installation in System Preferences.
This is similar to what we
introduced in iOS and iPadOS 13,
and is true for both MDM enrollment
profiles and configuration profiles.
To install a profile or perform
a device enrollment into MDM,
the user must manually
launch System Preferences,
navigate to the Profiles Preference pane,
and select the profile.
At that point,
the user will see a window describing
what the profile does and can
choose to install it or ignore it.
If no action is taken by the
user roughly eight minutes
after the profile is downloaded,
the profile is automatically
removed from System Preferences.
These additional steps are important
to consider in your deployment
workflows and documentation.
We continue to make security
enhancements that impact several
command line tools IT teams may
be using in deployment workflows.
With macOS Big Sur,
it's no longer possible to
install profiles using the
profiles command line tool.
All other features of the tool remain the
same and continue to work as expected.
Additionally,
the Network Setup command line tool
doesn't allow standard user accounts
to change network settings without an
administrator username and password.
Standard user accounts can
still turn Wi-Fi on and off,
change the Wi-Fi network name or SSID,
and read all network settings.
This brings the Network Setup command
line tool into parity with what a
standard user can control in either
the network pane of system preferences
or the Wi-Fi menu in the menu bar.
macOS Big Sur also prevents the
use of the security command line
tool to add certificates to the
system keychain without interactive
authorization from an admin user.
This means it's no longer possible
to trust a root certificate across
the entire system without either
an admin explicitly authorizing it
or it being installed using MDM.
Many changes were introduced in the areas
of software updates in macOS Big Sur.
First, as I mentioned previously,
macOS has adopted an update
mechanism similar to that of iOS.
This allows the updater to make changes
to the system before you ever need to
reboot when doing a software update.
This significantly reduces
the downtime of a system while
installing a software update,
which provides a better user experience.
You can specify deferring major
upgrades and minor security,
beta, and app updates for
macOS for up to 90 days.
New in macOS 11.3 is that
major macOS upgrades,
minor macOS updates,
and non-OS updates can each be deferred
with separate deferral windows,
meaning three different
possible deferral windows,
each up to 90 days.
When sending the schedule
OS update MDM command to
install a macOS software update,
MDM can force the installation
of the update and,
if necessary, force a restart.
If you've been using the
Software Update command line tool
to ignore specific updates or set
a custom software update catalog,
note that those flags have
been removed in macOS Big Sur,
and managing software updates
using MDM is the way forward.
On macOS,
there are two types of services within
privacy preferences policy control:
user and system.
User services are granted by individual
users and grant only access to processes
operating within that user's session.
For example,
access to a user's camera or microphone.
System services, in contrast,
may only be granted
access by administrators,
but authorize the service
for every user on the system.
Some services are especially
privacy sensitive,
such as camera, microphone,
screen capture, and listen event.
While they can be configured using MDM,
they can only be denied and not allowed.
In macOS Catalina,
standard users were able to approve
their own apps for screen capture,
but in macOS Big Sur,
admin authentication is required.
However, in macOS Big Sur,
MDM can specify apps that standard
users can then approve themselves for
both screen capture and listen event.
This helps ensure a balance between
the need to configure devices at scale,
while still empowering users to make
informed and conscious decisions about
apps or services that need to access
particularly privacy sensitive services.
The Authorization Key can accept a
value of "Allow standard user to set
system service for screen capture
and listen event service entries to
enable this feature." After it's set,
the Security and Privacy Preference
pane makes a clear visual distinction
in the table list for which apps can
be approved by the standard user.
The Authorization Key replaces
the previous "Allowed" key,
which was only Booleaned true and false,
but we support both keys for
other service types in macOS
Big Sur to help ease the transition.
For machines that are
upgrading to macOS Big Sur,
any entries that were approved in
previous versions of macOS will
remain approved upon upgrade.
macOS Big Sur includes a number
of new features and enhancements
for SSO extensions in the
built-in Kerberos extension.
First,
MDM payloads configuring SSO extensions
can now be installed on the user channel,
and settings configured on the user
channel take priority over any settings
configured on the device channel.
Improvements were made
for how Per App VPN is
handled for SSO extensions,
including that associated domains
now work with Per App VPN.
SSO extensions now also receive more
information about the calling app
that's trying to use the extension.
There's a new profile
removal operation too.
When an MDM profile configuring an
SSO extension is removed from the device,
extensions now have a short
window of time to sign out,
clean up files or keychain entries,
revoke tokens, or perform other cleanup
actions as necessary.
For more detailed information
on SSO extensions and
improvements in macOS Big Sur,
please watch the Leverage
Enterprise Identity and
Authentication session from WWDC 2020.
The built-in Kerberos extension also
includes a number of new features.
If you're not familiar with the
built-in Kerberos extension,
it offers a way to provide directory
connectivity to an on-premise
active directory environment
without actually needing to bind a
Mac computer itself to the directory.
It offers a number of features
like password synchronization and
automatic Kerberos ticket management.
We built the Kerberos extension
into the operating systems in macOS
Catalina and iOS and iPadOS 13,
and it is the replacement for
Enterprise Connect going forward.
We now support user channel
profile delivery for configuring
the Kerberos extension.
This improvement can allow for user-level
certificate identities for use with
certificate-based Kerberos or PK-INIT.
We also now support configuring
the Kerberos extension for
app-to-per-app VPN on macOS.
The Kerberos menu extra and the
app SSO agent must be added to the
app-to-per-app VPN payload to take
advantage of this improvement.
There's now more control for IT over
the initial login experience,
including a new MDM configuration option
to delay the first login prompt and a
new flag on the App SSO command line tool
to manually trigger the initial login
prompt for when it's most convenient
during your deployment process.
The menu extra now more accurately
represents the state of the
extension to the user and,
when clicked,
provides additional information about
the state of the network and credential.
And lastly, the user interface is
now customizable too,
including the ability to set
a custom identity name as
well as custom help text.
Here's an example of the identity
name being customized along
with the custom help text.
Regarding Enterprise Connect,
macOS Big Sur is the last release
to support Enterprise Connect.
Please test your workflows and deployment
methodologies using the new Kerberos
extension and engage your Apple teams
for workflow and migration guidance.
A user guide for the Kerberos extension,
which includes migration
guidance from Enterprise Connect,
is available from apple.com/business
on the IT page under Identity
Management Resources.
That's a summary of the most important
platform changes in macOS Big Sur.
I'd encourage you to check out
the Appleseed for IT release notes
and the MDM Settings Guide for
IT for all of the latest updates.
Now over to Danielle to discuss
the transition to Apple Silicon.
Thanks, Mike.
Mac is transitioning to
its own custom silicon,
and it started this transition
in November 2020 with the M1.
This gives Mac new and
exciting performance,
as well as powerful new technologies.
This change allows for common
architecture across all Apple products,
making it easier for developers
to write and optimize their apps
for the entire Apple ecosystem.
We will continue to support Intel-based
Mac computers for years to come.
There are some important considerations
with Apple Silicon in the context
of deployment and management
that you should be aware of.
Let's cover those now.
A big consideration to the move
to the new processing architecture
is application compatibility.
macOS Big Sur includes technologies
that ensure a smooth and seamless
transition to Apple Silicon.
Using Universal 2 application binaries,
developers can easily create a
single app that taps into the native
power and performance of the new
Mac computers with Apple Silicon,
while still supporting
Intel-based Mac computers.
Developers can easily convert their
existing apps to run on Apple Silicon.
And for the first time,
developers can make their iOS
and iPadOS apps available on the
Mac without any modifications.
New in macOS Big Sur 11.3,
MDM can install iOS and iPadOS apps
on Mac computers with Apple Silicon.
With the translation
technology of Rosetta 2,
users can run most existing Mac apps
that have not yet been updated,
including those with plugins.
As Rosetta cannot translate
kernel extensions,
kernel extensions must be recompiled to
run on Apple Silicon if they're needed.
But vendors should adopt system
extensions instead going forward.
The Hypervisor framework allows
for virtualization to be possible,
including the ability to run Linux.
Let's talk about Mac sharing mode.
Mac computers with Apple Silicon do
not have target disk mode.
Instead,
they have a feature called Mac sharing
mode that uses SMB for connectivity
over Thunderbolt or a USB cable.
Because it's file-based,
block copying data over this
interface using tools like ASR or
Apple Software Restore are not supported.
Once a Mac has been set
up with a user account,
if FileVault or Activation
Lock is enabled,
using Mac Sharing Mode requires
authentication.
Mac Sharing Mode provides access to
the macOS volume in its entirety,
not just access to the
user's home folder.
The host Mac with
Apple Silicon shows up on the
target Mac you're connecting it to,
just like a mounted network share,
and all you need to do
is connect as guest.
Mac computers with Apple Silicon have
similar macOS recovery environment
called Recovery OS that you're
used to accessing today.
However, instead of using Command plus R,
you access it by holding down
the power button at startup.
When reinstalling macOS
from the Recovery OS,
the latest available update for
the major version of the macOS that
you're currently running is installed.
For example,
if you installed 11.1 on your Mac,
but now 11.3 is available,
Recovery OS will install macOS 11.3.
In the case where something
is wrong with Recovery OS,
or it needs to be reinstalled,
instead of using internet recovery,
like on Intel-based Mac computers,
Apple Configurator 2 can reinstall
it through the Revive option.
Apple Configurator 2 can even
install a fresh copy of the latest
version of macOS during the process
if you choose the Restore option.
This makes Apple Configurator 2 a great
option for rapid return to service
on Mac computers with Apple Silicon.
Note that upgrading macOS in
place is not supported using the
Apple Configurator 2 recovery mechanism.
On Mac computers with Apple Silicon,
macOS has a new unified login experience.
The unified login experience allows for
new features even when FileVault is on.
It supports a richer UI with
accelerated graphics that is consistent
with the look and feel of macOS.
This experience is made possible by being
able to fully boot into macOS without
requiring a user to unlock the system.
For example,
the username and password view is now
supported if you choose to use that view
instead of the default list of users.
It also has built-in support
for authentication with CCID and
PIV compatible smart cards,
and includes voiceover support
for greater accessibility.
On Mac computers with Apple Silicon,
the ability to manage software
updates and load kernel extensions
is automatically enabled for
devices enrolled into MDM with
automated device enrollment,
and it leverages the Bootstrap token.
To cover that small caveat to
supervision that Mike mentioned earlier,
for devices that are supervised
using device enrollment,
which would have previously
been known as user-approved MDM,
reduced security can be manually enabled
in the startup security utility to
allow MDM to manage kernel extensions.
This is not necessary for MDM to manage
software updates to the latest version.
Mac computers with
Apple Silicon introduced
the concept of ownership.
Ownership can loosely be defined as
the user who has first claimed the
Mac for configuring it for their
use and is not tied to true legal
ownership or chain of custody.
Ownership in this context defines
who is authorized to make changes
to the startup security policy
for a specific install of macOS.
The startup security policy
defines the restrictions around
which version of macOS can boot on
Mac computers with Apple Silicon.
As well as how and if third-party kernel
extensions can be loaded and managed.
Ownership is backed by cryptography,
protected in the secure enclave,
and should really be more of an
implementation detail versus a primary
consideration for deployment operations.
However,
because security policies are specific
for each installation of macOS,
before you can perform
certain installation actions,
such as installing an
additional copy of macOS,
you may be prompted for a
current user's credentials.
And more specifically,
a current owner's credentials.
You'll also be prompted for
an owner's credentials before
making any changes to the startup
security policy for a specific
macOS installation in Recovery OS.
It's possible to be an owner
but not be an administrator,
but certain tasks requiring
ownership will check for both.
For example, modifying startup security
settings requires being both
an administrator and an owner.
Installing software updates on
Mac computers with Apple Silicon also
requires owner authentication
before the installation can begin.
But remember that managed devices also
leverage the Bootstrap token from MDM.
So that's a summary of changes
related to deployment for
Mac computers with Apple Silicon.
Now,
Mike will discuss deployment workflows,
including best practices for both
one-to-one and shared deployments.
Thanks, Danielle.
I'd like to start this section
by spending some time talking
about the macOS Installer.
It's critical to the
installation of macOS,
and it contains powerful
automation tools for IT to help
with various deployment workflows.
We're proud to be able to
offer eight years of hardware
support in macOS Big Sur.
The macOS Installer will run on most
Mac computers that date back to 2013.
Your deployment model and distribution
method for the macOS installer will
determine the best way to acquire it.
Historically,
in most cases for IT-driven workflows,
including the ones I'll
go through shortly,
acquiring a single copy
of the installer from the
Mac App Store or System Preferences
has been the best method.
Depending on your IT policy,
if users can upgrade their
Mac computers themselves,
they can also simply leverage the
Mac App Store or System Preferences
and download the installer.
You can acquire licenses for the
macOS installer from apps and books
within Apple School Manager or
Apple Business Manager for use
with distributing from MDM.
And another great option for acquiring
the installer is an option introduced
last year in macOS Catalina for the
Software Update command line tool that
allows you to script the download.
I'll cover this in more detail shortly.
Once you've acquired the installer,
you'll want to think about how you
distribute it to your Mac computers.
You can remotely copy it to
your Mac computers using your
preferred tool of choice.
You could place the
installer on external media,
such as a USB thumb drive.
You could push the installer
application directly using MDM as
an app acquired through Apps and
Books in Apple School Manager or
Apple Business Manager.
Or as I mentioned, since macOS Catalina,
you can easily script the download,
potentially directly on the target Mac.
Since macOS Catalina,
the fetch full installer flag on the
software update command line tool
automatically downloads the latest full
copy of the macOS installer available
in the software update catalog.
You can also specify a specific version
using the full installer version flag,
assuming that version is still
available in the catalog.
As a quick note, in macOS Catalina,
you may have needed to use that flag
even to download the latest installer,
but that's not necessary in Big Sur.
In Big Sur,
you can use the List Full Installers
option to see a listing of
available installers for download,
but know that the listing is customized
for the Mac that the command is executed
on and will only include installers
dating back to the oldest macOS version
that was available for that Mac.
When used with StartOS Install,
which I'll cover soon,
this can enable a completely
automated download and installation
or reinstallation of macOS.
Once you have a copy
of the macOS installer,
there are many ways to actually start
the installation of macOS Big Sur.
Having many choices enables a lot of
flexibility and many different workflows.
In this next section,
I'll go through the methods shown
to start the installation of macOS.
Many of these installation methods
also leverage content caching to
help reduce internet bandwidth
utilization on your network.
Let's start with the command line tool,
startosinstall.
StartOS Install is located
inside the macOS Installer's
Contents and Resources folder.
It allows for automated
workflows using scripting,
and the tool has a number of flags
that make it a powerful tool for
upgrading or reinstalling macOS.
One of those flags is Erase Install.
This flag is useful for reinstalling
macOS to its default state.
It requires Apple File System, or APFS,
as it creates a new volume
in the APFS container,
installs macOS to it, restarts,
and then removes all of the other
volumes in the same container,
including your previous boot volume.
If you want to preserve
those other volumes,
you can use the Preserve Container flag.
The end result is that you have a
clean installation of macOS as if
you had manually erased the internal
storage first using Disk Utility.
Another powerful flag is install package.
This flag enables you to have the
macOS installer install any number
of packages for you after the
installation of macOS finishes.
If you need to install
more than one package,
just pass multiple install
package flags into the command,
each with a path to a different package.
If you combine a race
install and install package,
you can take a machine that was
recently handed back into your help
desk and reinstall macOS in any other
packaged applications and have it
be ready to hand out to a new user.
macOS Catalina and macOS Big Sur install
all packages passed to the command with
the install package flag in the order
in which they are passed to the command.
Note that using startOS install on
Mac computers with Apple Silicon requires
passing administrator owner
credentials into the command.
Run the command with -h to view
additional usage information.
There's another command line tool
inside of the installer called
Create Install Media that allows
you to create a bootable installer
for use with installing macOS.
You can run it with the -h
option to get usage information.
This tool is helpful if you have
many machines you want to upgrade
and have limited network resources.
Using the installer on external
media has a minimal network
impact during installation,
as nearly all of the files necessary
for installing macOS are located
on the external media itself.
There is a flag on the tool
called Download Assets,
which will pre-download Apple T2
security chip firmware used during
macOS installation on Mac computers
with the Apple T2 security chip.
Note that internet connectivity
is still required on a Mac when
installing even when using that flag,
as the operating system on Mac computers
with the Apple T2 security chip
still needs to be personalized for
that hardware during installation,
which requires connectivity
to Apple servers.
Also note that while booting
from external media is disallowed
by default on Mac computers
with the Apple T2 security chip,
it can optionally be allowed.
Booting from external media is allowed
by default on other Mac computers,
including those with Apple Silicon.
Using recovery is another
option to install macOS Big Sur.
There are three forms of recovery:
the local one to an Intel-based Mac,
which is the macOS Recovery partition,
Internet Recovery for
Intel-based Mac computers,
and RecoveryOS along with
Apple Configurator 2 for Apple Silicon.
For Intel-based Mac computers,
you can boot to the local
macOS recovery partition by
pressing Command-R at boot time,
and that allows you to reinstall
the latest version of macOS that
was already installed on your Mac.
Internet recovery for
Intel-based Mac computers,
which is similar to macOS recovery
but is handled over the network by
booting to servers in Apple's cloud,
is available even when something
may be wrong with the local
recovery partition on the Mac.
There are several different
boot keys for internet recovery,
but the most commonly
used is Option-Command-R,
which installs the latest
possible version of macOS.
When using recovery,
either local or internet recovery,
you can optionally use Disk Utility
to manually erase the internal
storage before installing.
Note that booting to the latest version
of macOS in internet recovery on
Mac computers with the Apple T2 security
chip is dependent on the firmware
version of the chip at the time you
try to boot to internet recovery.
You can update it separately from
macOS if necessary by updating
the T2 chip firmware in DFU mode
using Apple Configurator 2.
Danielle discussed the new
Recovery OS and features in
Apple Configurator 2 for Mac computers
with Apple Silicon earlier.
Finally, if allowed by your IT policy,
users can also install macOS
Big Sur on their own using
the install assistant from the
Mac App Store or System Preferences.
This is the same experience as
consumers at home and provides
users with a graphical walkthrough
of the installation steps.
It does require administrative
privileges to begin installation.
Now, I'll hand it back to Danielle.
Thanks, Mike.
Now that we've covered
ways to install macOS,
let's move on to covering some
recommendations for specific workflows,
including both one-to-one
and shared devices.
I'll cover initial deployment, upgrading,
and return to service.
Let's start with initial deployment.
For initial deployments of Mac computers
in a one-to-one environment,
the best experience for both
users and IT is to leverage an
out-of-the-box workflow that uses
MDM and automated device enrollment
as part of Apple Business Manager and
Apple School Manager.
Automated device enrollment enables
supervision and enables kernel
extension management and software
update installation capabilities on
Mac computers with Apple Silicon.
Automated device enrollment allows
IT to customize and streamline the setup
experience for their users by enabling
the ability to skip any of the common
setup screens that would normally be seen
during a consumer setup of the device.
During initial setup of the device,
MDM can hold the devices in the setup
assistant until they're configured
with the most critical apps and
configurations for first-time use.
We encourage all organizations to
use local accounts where possible
for one-to-one deployments.
For more information on why,
take a look at the Leveraging
Enterprise Identity and
Authentication session from WWDC 2020.
For shared environments,
we also recommend that you use
automated device enrollment
for all the same reasons.
Using the new auto-advance feature
allows for a truly zero-touch setup
and is incredibly powerful when
combined with the StartOS install
that Mike discussed earlier.
Because multiple users are using the Mac,
a directory service or identity
provider helper tool often
provides access to accounts.
In high-traffic areas such
as a library or computer lab,
consider an account expiration
and removal strategy to help
clean up local home folders.
Whether you script this yourself
or use the built-in feature of
mobile accounts to automatically
expire after a given period of time,
it's up to you.
Now let's look at upgrades.
When upgrading to macOS Big Sur,
you can leverage one or many of
the ways Mike covered earlier when
he discussed the macOS installer.
Ultimately,
it will be up to you to decide which
option works best in your environment,
but there are many available
to accommodate different
situations and workflows.
Whether to upgrade in place or
erase and upgrade is also up to you.
Now let's look at return to service.
For return to service,
the erase install flag in startos
install is a great option because it's
supported on all Mac computers and can
handle both upgrading and erasing a
Mac without any additional considerations
or configurations required.
On Intel-based Mac computers,
you can use Internet Recovery.
And because in this context
of return to service,
be sure to erase the internal storage
first before reinstalling macOS.
On Intel-based Mac computers
and those with Apple Silicon,
you can use macOS Recovery,
Recovery OS in Apple Silicon,
or an external media workflow.
Again, be sure to erase the internal
storage first using Disk Utility or
use automation features built into
some provisioning tools to do so.
Note that running StartOS install
from the Recovery environment
is not recommended going
forward and is not supported on
Mac computers with Apple Silicon.
For Mac computers with Apple Silicon,
you can use Apple Configurator
2 to reinstall macOS,
as discussed earlier.
Note that using Apple Configurator
2 always installs the latest
version of macOS at the time
you perform the restore.
So that's a summary of
deployment workflows,
including recommendations for both
one-to-one and shared devices,
initial deployment, upgrading,
and return to service.
Lastly, to wrap up,
let's take a look at available resources.
While primarily intended
for MDM developers,
the MDM developer documentation
is also an incredibly helpful and
thorough resource that's available
to IT for helping understand how
MDM works at the protocol level.
The MDM Settings Guide for IT is a
technical resource with information about
payloads available from MDM to help you
configure devices in your environment.
The deployment reference for
Mac is a technical document
on the topics we cover today.
The Apple Platform Security Documentation
lists all software,
hardware,
and services features across platforms.
The AppleCare Professional Support
website hosts program
information for each of the
AppleCare OS support offerings for
IT departments and IT helpdesks.
If you're interested in
testing new Apple software,
any non-student managed
Apple ID from Apple School Manager or
Apple Business Manager can participate
in our Apple SEED for IT program.
This program allows you to
get access to pre-reviewed,
pre-released Apple software for
testing in your environment,
includes detailed test plans,
and puts your feedback into a dedicated
queue for filing feedback where issues
and enhancements are reviewed by a team
focused on education and enterprise.
The release notes are also targeted
at education and enterprise,
which allows us to highlight any
impactful changes or issues in the
operating systems for organizations.
Finally, here's a list of
Apple Support articles related to
the topics that we've discussed.
We hope you take advantage of those
resources and all the updates that have
come to macOS Big Sur and Apple Silicon.
Thank you.